The one year after working with Interns PT1.

I think that many people be in a similar situation:
You want to increase the number of team members. Or a friend or family member asking you to help and hire a cousin/child that want to
code but have limited commercial experience. And you have a question in your head: Should I do it? Should I help?
It can be a problem and are your ready to jump into this rabbit hole?


I don't have this choice. I'm building my project without funding and I have only 2 options:
 - I can code myself and maybe go insane
 - Form a team around me
 - (3rd option is to go to normal work, but ...)
-  (4th option is to get funding, but ...)

I can form a team of interns, that want TO LEARN and I'm ready to teach. Later, when they are able to work on small tasks, I'll assign these tasks to them and will move my project forward, And this is how these interns give back.

This was my assumption.

[back to the story]

My story of how I tried to search interns in bulk can be easy to follow by places, where I was. And usually, I was banned.

----------

[AngelList]

I wrote and send a bunch of similar messages to a different number of people. I have hinted that maybe I was reported by my native (соотечественник) I think it's 50% of probability because he was angry on me with my "stupid sales" follow-up messages. And he sends a report at support.  Support didn't completely remove me from a platform. I work hard and have a good profile with a nice number of connections. But they freeze me, and I cannot add new connections to my network. I can only follow new people.
But job sections works well. And I still get new applicants.
[screen]

-----------

[Treehouse]

I was there too and get good help from support. They advise me to write at their forum. But in order to get access to it -> I should be a registered and paying customer for their courses [screen]

-----

[Freebootcamp]

it was a strange situation. I think that my message there will be very relative because it's a website, where students learn how to code and they seek a job. It has an active forum, where people share their job-seeking experience in Tech, but I cannot write there too. Or maybe I need to be smarter. I create a long post with a detailed explanation of what I'm looking for. And I immediately got "closed" because of violation of their terms.

-------

[Github]

At some point in summer 2018, I figure out one lifehack. I'm an active GitHub user too, and there a lot of students.
They keep their code at repositories and usually a tech student, that learn to code via online courses -> store their code here. And usually they keep titles or keywords up-to-date, so it's easy to find someone by tech stack or the name of e-learning platform or famous course name. A lot of recruiters searching at Github, so there is nothing new.
I decided to write to these students without any hesitation. I create a task, with the title - "let's collaborate" and promote my work in basic sentences. Maybe I should be smarter again. Do you know that you can find an email of person, that keep their code publicly? Read about it here. I don't think that this is a good idea and hope Github will close this hole. If I use this API way, I think I wouldn't be banned.
I send a message/create new similar issues at repositories of 100-200 people. And after that, I got banned for 1,5 months.
I was upset. All my work right now stored there. And support has a fun way to teach me. They hide all created issues by me.
In order to be unblocked - I should remove that spammy title and replace issue content with ".". For all of that "spam"-issues.
And I really work hard in order to clean up that mess. But I also have some rest. Whole work was paralyzed. So few weeks I was just laying down and read the Harry Potter series.
I think you understand at this point of the reading article, that I don't want to be tied up to some platforms.
Each project has their rules and it's hard to broke them or didn't violate something.

---

So my advice for you -> don't keep all eggs in one basket. But to be honest -> I finish to look/relate at AngelList a lot of times from June.

But I still get some new interested people, but I'm slow-rolling anyone right now.


---

This is why I want to have my own separated source of new interns.  Each project has their rules.
They grow, they change their terms and you actually didn't owe anything.
At any second that you violate terms -> you'll be punished. And it's hard to ПОДСТРАИВАТЬСЯ.

So don't use one major source. But, to be honest, in a long run, it works. I was limited and cannot actively network at AngelList from June, but I still receive enquiries from a new people, that want to apply.


Some numbers. I didn't count it precisely from summer, but from the beginning, I send about 2500 requests to students. A lot of them was interested. Active was 200-230. I set up about 120 interviews and about 60 join me and start to help me with my project.

They start from learning, using same courses/tutorials that I find and use or made myself.
People that didn't leave working on these courses -> they became ready to work with real tasks and start to code with me my project.
If they didn't give up -> after touching/collide "real world" -> in a few months the use that knowledge and increase their self-confidence. After this period they start to attend interviews again and with updated confidence in their skills and maybe with my experience certificate -> the quickly land a real full-time in-office job with a salary.
And I'm happy about it. I'm blessed to have the ability to help them and clean up my karma.

Please Clap if this was interesting to read. Ask questions, if you want.
The next article will have some advice, observations, conclusions, that I made in last year, working with a team of interns.

One of my next ideas was about creating an education project. It will be focused on mastering skills. Not just give them to "eat" tutorials, that will be buried in their GitHub accounts, but helping them with facing a real-time experience.
In short Educate students to code on practice...

So if this idea worth exploring for you -> buzz me. I will be happy to chat or get any help or advice. Also, I was teaching on Skillshare. My assumption was that this will drove more attention, but it doesn't'...

[article]
