I collected some of the basic questions, that I got from different people,
about my experience with interns. The first part can be found here: []

Be aware, that you cannot wait for immediate results from the beginning.
By including intern/interns into your development process(or any) other professional/commercial projects) -> you'll
make your Project Manager busy. I don't like term babysitting, but a lot of control and organization should be applied in order to have a good time for intern and you.

So if you don't have free time/energy -> it's a bad idea.

If you don't have steal rules or processes at your company - > you just add more chaos into the dish of chaos.
I think you understand my point.

Be ready that an average, it will take about 1-2 months before intern will learn how to work at your company.
Only after that time he/she will be ready to make nice progress on his own, without spending additional time.


From what countries I got applications? Are they are local or not?
I got interns from all around the globe.
The difference's the main word. I cannot remember all countries, but Asia, Europe, Australia, Africa, and North America covered.
A lot of different countries and cultures.
One time we have a video chat - 4 people - different places, different accents. it was very fun to chat.

Most fascinating and motivating for me are people from China, India, African countries as Ghana, Kenia, Nigeria

Damn, one of our interns gives birth in summer. and I was stressed and wait for her message.
I really care about this experience.
it giving me for some reasons.

Because people that applying to work with want to have a better life and they fighting to succeed.
It's energizing me every time when I think about it.


===
How to manage interns?

It's hard. You can explain to everyone workflow and rules -> but they will try to abandon them.
Because they don't know how to work and don't feel comfortable with the new approach.

And this is ok, it's normal.

They like to use Messenger and call me a Bro.
And I like to use email. So please be patient, don't nervous. And wait while they will find their emails and find your message.
What is cool -  they will reply fast(when read your message).

[some details how I manage my projects]

============
How to search for interns? How to find a right one?

I think the basic way to search by skills. But this is a long game.
You can also view by technical education. You can also search for people, that somehow
knowledgeable at some parts of your work.
If a student made a custom course work or complete a "famous course" at Udacity at image recognition software.
Actually, Udacity has their self-driving course.
It'll reduce the number of interviews.
Because it's not the same as search by "Machine Learning" title and Skill - Python.
It's so common.


And Yeah, you will need to teach your interns.
Be ready to reply to their simple questions. Or catch them before they will fall into the sea of trouble. At some point, I was bored to reply to default or similar questions and I start to write articles.
I'm mastering my story-telling, in order to give and share the necessary information that I want to share, in a format that interns will be able to understand and use as I want to.


Sometimes, students "get loose" or cut loose.
And later they shy to come back.
You should be ready for this or try to prevent it.
My team members are different.
Different cultures, different ages.
People can e active, or passive.
Some people are "developed" and ready to work. They find their goals.

Some don't.

What uniting us? Passion for technologies.
They hungry to new stuff as do I.
And they want to learn more.


Another people just trying. They want to explore how it will work for them.
And this is fine too.



One more thing!

They ready to chat and explore opportunities.
They ready to try something new, but when the task is not prepared and assigner -> something changes _>
and they have hard times to start it.

This is why they usually asking for the timeframe and you better give them a deadline or it'll be buried in their heads because it's not easy to start a completely a new "thing"


Be ready, that they will request an official job-offer, an experience certificate ->
this is an example from my work, for your inspiration or template.

In order to give them more "freedom" and "fun", I create a common Slack channel
But I'm not using it quite often. And this is bad. Because while you didn't give them a lot of attention - they became sad and unmotivated.

So you usually should keep open-connection with them the whole time.
I have a hard time with this.


----

So only by learning this. I still prefer to use and create and assign coding tasks at Github.
Also, if I will spend time and invest something by preparing tasks, and this student will "cut loose"

_> I will have that task, and I can re-assign it anytime to someone else.


Sometimes they get scared by looking at big repository with 600 commits before they starting or see a lot of " scary " code   that they didn't understand(me too)

Usually, I'm not making any feedbacks or assumptions about how exactly new members will give real results or
what about quality or frequency will be a lot of Devs are mastering
first skills from video tutorials or step-by-step articles.


{and usually spending one time to code something -> didn't mean that they learn it
or can apply this knowledge at the different situation at your project}

SO you should make any assumptions too.
Because people can behave differently and the first expression can be wrong(shit)
especially in the software development field.

Personal screening, resume review, Linkedin profile -> cannot tell will he/she be able to deliver or not.
Also, it's always a personal thing. Can teacher and intern be a good match or not.



At their age -> profiles in professional networks usually not maintained well.
Check Instagram instead!

Summary - students don't have the experience to show their experience and present themselves.

What is a matter for me -> their intentions to learn and WILL to complete the task and figure out how to do?
And the ability to adjust. This is just another skill.

Usually, a verbal speaking task explanation didn't work well.
What can be worth it? Maybe explain what to do in a long chat where other people interacting too.

I prefer to use text descriptions with separated Github Tasks.
Interns should realize that this is their save place.
It's a place, that they owe, where he/she can ask questions and receive answers.

At the first time -> don't share the same task between users?
They will be conflicted.

If an intern stuck or didn't start a task -> then they stuck because of you.
And your task is more complex than you think. You'll never get a real feeling what is easy to do and what is not).


Usually, it also correlates with time, that they spend with you or another manager before.

After a few months of working together and will be an active participant but they all require a tie, to "un-freeze" and be comfortable.
